---
title: Introduction
description: Livepeer's media server, MistServer documentation
metaTitle: Media Server - Livepeer.com
metaDescription: Livepeer's media server, MistServer documentation
---

# Introduction

MistServer is a free, full-featured streaming media toolkit. It enables you to
take any media from any location, using any method, and deliver it seamlessly to
anyone, anywhere, in any format.

It is open source and can integrate with Livepeer's streaming API to transcode
video at scale.

MistServer is particularly known for being able to automate video workflows,
having best in class compatibility and being deployable with any streaming
architecture. All while remaining lightweight and delivering high performance.

Transcoding takes the source video and converts it into multiple versions of the
same video in different sizes and qualities, each of which is optimized for
viewers with different internet speeds and devices. This ensures the viewers
have the most optimized experience no matter where they are.

Your video characteristics like framerate, resolution, rate, keyframe interval
and bandwidth are all determined by the encoding. Leveraging the power of the
Livepeer decentralized transcoding network, the combination of MistServer and
Livepeer creates a full solution for video streaming. This article introduces
the Livepeer transcoding network, the available features from the current Mist
and Livepeer integration available today, and the required steps needed to set
this up.

Livepeer Video Services is a scalable Infrastructure as a Service for developers
who want to add live or on-demand video to their project. It aims to increase
the reliability of video streaming while reducing costs associated with it by up
to 10x. While video transcoding is an important step to ensure high quality
viewing experience, it also requires a lot of computation power. This is
problematic for most video services, translating to high maintenance cost and
complexity.

To achieve cost reduction combined with a resilient platform, Livepeer is
building peer-to-peer infrastructure that interacts through a marketplace
secured by the Ethereum blockchain. Currently, Livepeer runs enough nodes and
total computing power to transcode tens of millions of minutes each week.. For a
more detailed and quick primer on Livepeer, please refer to
https://livepeer.org/primer

The MistServer Livepeer integration (MistProcLivepeer) leverages the Livepeer
network for video transcoding. This removes the transcoding bottleneck, allowing
MistServer to handle hundreds of transcoded video streams concurrently.

![](/img/docs/mistserver-intro.png)
